can you starve the tumor cell of their
fermentable fuels and kill them and the
answer is absolutely it's an elegant
beautiful system and when it's done
right it you can't believe how well it
works problem is Sanjay nobody is doing
that let me put it another way if you
and I both had tumors growing in our
body and we were both drinking the
cyanide together and someone would say
wow what a catastrophe these two guys
that think they know what they're doing
just killed themselves but they had
cancer so we're going to take the tumor
out we're going to look at it and the
tumor cells would be fine the cyanide
would not kill the tumor cells so uh we
say whoa what's going on how is it
possible that the the cyanide killed
these folks but it didn't kill their
tumor and the answer is the tumor
doesn't use uh oxygen for energy it uses
fermentation for energy so Berg did
those experiments years ago given rats
that had tumor Cyanide and the rat died
but not the tumor and the and it was
clear evidence that the tumors are not
using oxygen for their for their
survival so what are they what are they
living on how are they growing and alive
if if they're not using oxygen and it
turns out that they use fermentation so
that fermentation is a form of energy
that bip bypasses oxygen so that's
interesting they're fermenting H well
what are the fuels that are driving
their ferment ation metabolism what are
they using and it's
glucose uh the the sugar glucose and the
amino acid glutamine and those are the
two fermentable fuels that allow SE
cancer cells to to to grow so what the
answer to your question is yes cancer
cells live they and can you starve them
okay so if we know they're fermenting
and we know that they can't live without
fermentable fuels and you know that
there are only two fermentable fuels
that are keeping them alive then you
Target and take those two fermentable
fuels away and they die so can you
starve the tumor cell of their
fermentable fuels and kill them and the
answer is absolutely and then your
question is well if that's so simple how
come no one's doing it and the answer is
because everybody thinks cancer is a
genetic disease they're not thinking
about what's keeping the cells alive